# 1.0 Mobile Devices

## 1.1 Laptop hardware


### Laptop batteries 
- Some batteries are very modular, allowing us to unplug and plug them in very easily. Whilst others have them integrated inside the laptop, which makes it harder to take out.
- Most batteries are now Lithium-Ion or Lithium-Ion polymer batteries. In old batteries, if you frequently stopped charging when it was at 50%, then it'd eventually forgot that it had more capacity available. With new memories there's no 'memory effect', so you can charge and discharge them at anytime without needing to fully discharge them to maintain their quality. 
- However, everytime you charge these new batteries, they lose a tiny bit of quality. So over the years, you'll realize that your battery capacity has diminished over time.

### Keyboard and keys
- Usually a keyboard's laptop is held together by a few screws and a a large ribbon cable. If you have troubles with the integrated/default laptop keyboard, you can use an external usb keyboard. 
- Depending on a laptop's size, its keyboard can be different. The layout, the inclusion of a numpad, and even function keys. To use the secondary function on a key, hold 'fn' whilst tapping the key in question.



### Laptop memory
- Small Outline Dual In-line Memory Module (SO-DIMM): A section in your laptop or computer that allows you to plug in and take out memory sticks/modules as you need. This makes it easy to install, replace, and upgrade memory on your laptop. However, some providers may solder the memory modules onto your motherboard, making it impossible to change your memory, which is bad. 

- Hard Disk drive (HDD): Traditionally spinning disk drives, magnetic disk, available in older machines.
- Solid state drive: All digital, not physically spinning. It's quieter, noticeably faster, less latency. The 
- M.2:  A smaller form factor, and doesn't have any cables. Just plug it or screw it into a slot and you're good to go.

##### Migrations from HDD to SSD
- Upgrading Physically: You'll need to open the back of your laptop, unscrew it and unplug any cables, and your drive should slide out. Very modular. 
- There are two ways to do this. With the first way you'd install an OS on the SSd and move the user's documents onto that SSD, and also install any needed apps onto it. The second way is to create an 'image/clone' of the user's current HDD, and move that image into the SSD. As a result we ensured that we moved everything, and there wasn't a need to install an OS. The software to do this is very accessible.

### 802.11 Wireless and Bluetooth
- On newer laptops, bluetooth and wireless capabilities are bulit into the laptop. However on older laptops, they use wireless cards such as 'Mini PCI'. Should  

- 802.11: For connecting to local area work, high speed, and being able to have your laptop connect to wifi/internet.
- Bluetooth: For personal area network, short range, and we just connect to nearby devices.

### Authentication

##### Biometrics
- Sign in and authenticate yourself using facial recognition, finger print, essentially unique biological data.

- Hardware: The computer needs a finger print scanner or camera to see your face.
- Software: Needs the software to recognize your face or fingerprint.

##### Near-field communication (NFC)
- Devices just need to be in short distance (<= 4cm)of each other to exchange data, or authenticate you.


## 1.2 Mobile Display Components
