
# Connecting mod

### Connection methods
- USB (Universal Serial Bus): High speed wired communication. Can be used for charging and data transfers. Now, micro-usb is commonly used. 

- USB-C: A double sided usb connector, and different signals can use the same connector. 

- Lightning: A connection commonly used by Apple. It supports higher power.

- Serial Interfaces: Also known as DB-9, it was used for RS-232 (Recommended standard), which was an industry standard since 1969. It used to be used for modem connections, so for old wifi routers. 

- Near field communication: Send small amounts of data over a close area. So it's like using your phone to pay for something or to authenticate yourself. Just hold your phone or device near another device for data to transfer.

- Bluetooth: High speed communication over short distances.
- Hotspot: Turns your phone into your personal wireless router. 

### Accessories:

- Touch pens: Allows you to write on a screen. It can sense pressure and also may have its own buttons. Some styluses are only compatible with certain systems, and these are called 'active' styluses.

- Drawpad: An external digitizer, so you can draw on the drawpad to interact with your laptop.

- Trackpad: Control your mouse with your finger.

- Head sets: Allows you to privately listen to audio and can record audio. Can be wired or wireless.

- External speakers: Usually connect to your device via bluetooth, and can make the audio better.

- Docking station: Instead of having cables attached to your laptop, cables are attached to the docking station. Then you attach your laptop to the docking station, and as a result, you don't have to remove a ton of wires everytime you move your laptop.

- Port replicator: Similar to a docking station, you'd connect your stuff to the replicator (speaker, mouse, keyboard, etc.) and then connect your laptop to the port replicator using a single connection. Now something like your laptop audio will be routed to your speakers via the replicator.
