# Cellular Networks


### Wireless/cellular data network
- 2G networks: 
Consisted of two standards.
1. GSM (Global System for Mobile Communication): An old mobile networking standard that has world-wide coverage. Common networks were AT&T and T-Mobile. Allowed users to have their phone number on a card (SIM card). Allowed for multiple people to communicate simultanteously over the same frequency. Allowing for phone calls and whatnot.
2. CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access): Each call uses a different 'code' and these codes are used to filter your phone calls so that they reached the right phone/devices. 

- 3G Networks:
Allowed us to send more data, higher speeds. Now we can do GPA, mobile TV, etc.

- 4G and LTE (Long Term Evolution):
Introduced a new standard 'LTE' that allowed GSM and CDMA providers to use one standard. Instead download rates up to 150 Mbits/s.

- 5G:
Higher speeds. Speeds from 100-900 Mbits/sec. Good for IoT devices as now bandwidth isn't much of a restraint anymore.

- Preferred Roaming List (PRL) Updates: A software update that allows your phone to know where the towers are that it can connect to.


### Mobile Device Connectivity:
- Bluetooth pairing: Enable bluetooth on both devices, set devices to discoverable mode, and now the device should appear. You may need to enter a pin to ensure that you're adding the right device.

- GPS: Created by the DoD; basically over 30 satellites orbiting the Earth are used to help our devices discern our physical location.

- Mobile Device Management: Software solution that allows organizations to manage the devices of its users. Ensures certain apps are installed, configures the company email system, and it may make you do 2FA.

### Mobile device setup and synchronization


- Microsoft 365: Microsoft's cloud service that allows you to manage a microsoft account suite.
- ICloud: Apple's cloud site for user accounts.
- Google Workspace: Google's account suite for user accounts.

##### Data to synchronize:
When setting up device you can synchronize and store various things on the cloud. Here are some
1. Mail
2. Photos
3. Calendar
4. Contacts



