# Intro to IP


### IP, TCP, and UDP
- Internet Protocol (IP): A unique identifier for a computer on the internet. Like how every building has an address. TCP and UDP: Encapsulated in our IP protocol, these are just ways ways of moving data.

- Transmission Control Protocol (TCP): Known as 'reliable', since it can recover from errors, verify that data was received, and manage out of order data/packets. A formal connection (TCP handshake) is setup between user and receiver, and then closed after.
1. HTTPS: For making secure HTTP/web requests.
2. SSH (Secure Shell): Provides a secure/encrypted form of terminal communication between computers.

- User Datagram Protocol: No formal open or close to the connection, and you can't verify that data was received. Most used in real-time communication, like a phone-call.
1. Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP): Used for setting up an IP.
2. Trivial File Transfer Protocol.

- Port number: Where an application is running on a server. Every building has different rooms, and every computer has many port numbers. When delivering data, it is sent to a specific application and port number. There are 'well knonwn' or common port numbers, so port 80 is well known for HTTP/Web, etc. Your other applications will use 'emphemeral' port numbers (1024-65535), which are temporarily opened.


### More on port numbers and protocols
1. File transfer protocol: Transfers files between systems. You can also do adding, deleting, etc. Uses 'tcp/20' and 'tcp/21'
2. SSH: Uses 'tcp/22'. Similar to telnet, but it's secure/encrypted.
 Telnet: Uses 'tcp/23', and it gives you console access to a device. 
3. Simple Mail Transfer Protocol: Used to send mail to a mail server. Uses 'tcp/25'.
4. Domain name system: Converts a human-readable name of a website to an ip address.
5. Dynamic host configuration protocol: Automatically configures our IP address. Runs on 'udp/67' or 68.
6. Post office protocol 3: Used for receiving emails. However you can't synchronize emails across multiple devices.
7. Internet Message Access protocol: Same as Pop3, but everything is synchronized.
8. Server message block (SMB): A protocol used by Microsoft windows. For file transfer and printer sharing. It communicated over 'NetBios', but 
9. Simple network management protocol (SNMP): Used to gather data about the devices using a network. We can use 'queries' to learn how many bytes have been transferred. Or 'traps' to inform/alert us when changes happen.

10. Lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP): Allows us to access directories on a network.

11. Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP): Allows you to remotely connect and control a window's machine. Via RDP, devices using different operation systems can connect to a window's computer using RDP.



##### Small note about subnets and IP addresses

- IPV4: Has four sections separated by periods '192.168.1.1'.
- Subnet: A subnetwork, a smaller part of a larger network. Divided into smaller parts for performance, security, etc.
- Subnetting: Process of dividing a larger network into smaller subnets.
- Subnet mask: Used to determine which portion of the ip address is the 'host part' and the 'network part'

Example: 
We have a network with IP address range of 192.168.1.0/24. So we'll have 256 IP address from 192.168.1.0 to 192.168.1.255

We can divide this into two subnets.

1. Subnet 1: 192.168.1.0/25 (addresses from 192.168.1.0 to 192.168.1.127)
2. Subnet 2: 192.168.1.128/25 (addresses from 192.168.1.128 to 192.168.1.255)

Routers use subnets to efficiently send packets between networks. It uses the destination IP address to determine the subnet of the destination IP address.
