# Network devices and hardware





- Routers: They receive data (packets), and then forward that data to the next router. This keeps happening until data reaches its destination.

- Switches: Device that connects multiple computers to the same network, allowing them to communicate with each other. Determines where data should be sent based on the destination 'mac' address (unique hardware addresses). Uses an integrated circuit to make this possible.
1. Unmanaged switch: Few configuration options; plug-and-play. Little integration with other devices, and SNMP doesn't work.
2. Managed switch: Used by larger organizations, and provides more configurations. 

- Access points: Allows wireless devices to connect to a wired network, via Wifi. For example, phone sends data to access point, access point sends data to router via ethernet cable, router sends data to modem, modem to ISP.

- Patch panel: Panel that connects cables to port. For physically managing network cables for multiple devices. You connect a computer wire to the patch panel, and that connects to our network computer. 

- Firewall: Able to filter network traffic based on IP addresses and port numbers. Some can encrypt traffic between sites you visit, or run a site to ensure it's safe for you (proxy), or even act as a router.


### Power over Ethernet:
Some computers allow for powering a device through an internet cable. Power is provided at the switch component.

1. Injector: Needed when switch doesn't support power; midspan
2. Switch: Power is provided by switch; endspan
3. PoE Standards: There are different PoE standards, with the newer ones support higher watts and current.


### Hub
Also known as a 'multi-port repeater', traffic going in one port is repeated to every other port. As network traffic increases, this becomes less efficient, which is why we changed to switch-based network traffic management.

### Cables 
- Cable Moden (Broadband): Multiple frequencies of traffic over a single wire. Things such as television, phone, and all other things on a single wire. Managed by a cable company

- Digital subscriber line (Uses telephone lines): Type of modem that uses telephone lines. Download is faster tha nupload, and also there are noticeable distance limitations.

- Optic network terminal (ONT): Connecting using copper ethernet. Device usually installed on your house.

- Network Interface Card: Device that each computer has, that allows it to connect to the network and communicate with other devices.


### Software Defined Networking
- Software-defined networking: Separates the 'control' plane from the 'data' plane. So we'd have a centralized control, some software, that controls the network devices (swtiches, routers, etc.).

1. Infrastructure plane: Processes, forwards, and does other things on the packet-level. 
2. Control plane: Help the data plane in deciding where to route packets.
3. Application/management plane: Layer that allows us to configure and manage the device.

This should make things more flexible, scalible, etc.