# CIA Triad and other stuff


### CIA Triad
A combination of fundamental security rules
1. Confidentiality: Prevent disclosure of private information.
- Encryption; role-based access;

2. Integrity: Private info and ensure that the information wasn't modified.
- non-repudiation: Provides proof that the data is valid.

3. Availability: All systems should be up and running at all times.
- Redundancy and fault tolerance.


### Non-repudiation
- Proof of integrity: Verify that the data we've received has not changed. Verifying by using a hash, and if the data changes, then the fingerprint/hash changes.
- Proof of origin: Proves who sent the message. Sender has a private key, and you can verify the sender with a public key.

Involves asymmetric key encryption, reference is the Bob and Alice example.

### Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting (AAA):
- Authentication: Proves who you are. User credentials.
- Authorization: Whether or not a user has access to do something; a role.
- Accounting: Records what people do, logs their actions to make them accountable if they do something bad.

How it works: Client sends user credentiasl to a firewall/vpn concentrator. Basically this is to weed out unwanted connections. If you're good it sends your credentials to a server. If good credentials it allows you to access the resource, else no.

- Certificates: A way to digitally sign a device to authenticate it and show that it's a company-owned laptop, etc.
- Certificates of Authority: Organizations have this device/software that manages all certificates. You'd use this to create new certificates and register a new device. This 'authority' has its own 'root' certificate.

- Authorization model: A way for us to delegate permissions. So we can set up roles, users belonging to certain departments can only do certain things, or just put users in a certain groups, etc. It makes it easy to understand what many users can access or d

### Gap analysis:
Analysis of where we are, and where we want to be. Analyze what's currently happening and come up with a plan on how we can get to our security goals.

1. Choose a framework
2. Evaluate people and processes; get our foundation, or what we currently are in terms of security knowledge and policies.
3. Comparing/contrasting: Evaluate existing systems, look for weaknesses.
4. Do an analysis that deatils our objectives and highlights the current state of things.

### Zero Trust: 
- Typical: Many networks are relatively open after you get passed the firewall, few security controls/checkpoints.
- Zero Trust: Makes it so you need to authenticate yourself everytime you access a resource or do something important.

##### Planes of operation
- Data plane: Processes, forwards, and works with sending data.
- Control plane: Helps the data plane determine how data should be forwarded.


- Adapative identity: Dynamically perform additional security checks based on the source of where the user is requesting from. So if it's posing as an American lapotp, but the IP is from China, then we'll probably do another check.
- Security zones: Understand where they're connecting from. A trusted vs untrusted network? Or maybe separate groups or department zones?

- Policy enforcement point: This point, will be some device or software that will determine whether or not a given user is authorized to get a resource. Here it'll tackle things such as roles, security zones, and other access-based rules/policies you've  (policy admin) created.


### Physical Security
- Bollards: Barricades
- Access control vestibule: Intermediate room where opening one door causes others to lock. Idea that one person can go at a time, or you're evaluating a group of people before letting them go in.
- fencing
- video surveillance
- security guard
- access badge: An ID badge that people can wear to identify and authenticate themselves. 
- More lighting to make people more visible.
- Different types of sensors: Like infrared (heat), pressure (change in force; for motion), microwave (motion across large areas), and ultra-sonic (detects motions, collisions, etc).


## Deception and disruption
- Honeypot: A resource that we fabricate in order to lure out bad actors. We'll observe their actions on the honeypot to see how attackers are trying to attack our 'system'.
- Honeynet: An entire fabricated network that includes servers, workstations, routers, etc. that simulate a real network. A network of honey pots essentially.
- Honeyfile: Files with fake info that appear to be important that are used to lure out bad actors. 
- Honeytoken: Fake data, api credentials, browser cookies etc. used to lure bad actors.