# Cryptography


## Public key infrastructure (PKI):
- Symmetric encryption: Encrypt and decrypt with the same key. The challenge is that it's hard to distribute and share the keys. If one key is leaked, then we lose. However it's very fast.

- Asymmetric encryption: 
1. Private key: Kept private.
2. Public keys: For sharing and distribution. 

People can send you information encrypted with the public key. With the private key, you're the only one that can decrypt that message and see the information.

- Key escrow: Idea that someone else holds your private (decryption) keys. This is actually a good idea as a user may leave the organization and we need to decrypt and see their past data/work. Or maybe government agencies are working together and are sending info to each other, they need to decrypt each other's data.

## Encrypting data
- Transport encryption: Such as HTTPS. Others could be a VPN, which encrypts all data transmitted over the network. 

- Encryption levels:
2. Partition
1. Full disk
3. File
4. Volume
5. Database
6. Record

- Keys: Again keep your keys private. And also attackers can still try to brute-force attack to guess the keys.
- Out of band key exchange: Send the symmetric key in person, via telephone, etc. Just not over the net.
- In-band key-exchange: Send key the encryption key (public) over the network. Protect the key with encryption. So you'd use asymmetric encryption to deliver a symmetric key.


## Encryption Technologies
- Trusted Platform Module (TPM): Hardware that's used for a computer's cryptographic functions. Random numbers, keys, etc.
- Hardware Security Module (HSM): Provides cryptographic functionality for thousands of devices. It stores all the encryption (public) keys for your servers! 

- Key management system: Either onsite or cloud-based, but it allows you to manage encryption keys for your webservers, individual devices, certificates for users, etc. Good place for associating keys with users, and log key use and other events.
- Secure enclave: Hardware processor that's solely dedicated to keeping your data private, monitors system boot, real-time memory encryption, etc.

## Obfuscation
The process of making data unclear.


- Steganography: Hiding information in plain sight. Hiding info in an image, hiding data in network packets, hiding invisible water marks on paper, hiding info within an audio or video file. 
- Tokenization: Replace sensitive data with a 'token' version of it.
1. You pay with credit card '123-456-789'. Card number is sent to a remote token server. The server records your card number and gives you back a 'token' version such as '039-999-921'.
2. Your phone uses the token version to pay. The payment processing system receives '039-999-921', it sends that to the token server to validate it, and to get your real card number.
3. If that token matches an actual credit card for the server, the transaction and payment is approved. 
4. Now that old token is only one time use, so if you want to make another transaction, you'd get a new token. Secure to use since your credit card number isn't going anywhere dangerous.
- Data masking: Hides some of the original sensitive data. For example, your receipt will only have a portion of your credit card.

 

